The Fir Cruthen are the inhabitants of what were previously thought to be the westernmost lands of the world, of Caledonia, Cymrja, Manx and Erin. Many see them as savages, bloodthirsty on the battlefield, and soporific with ale when at rest. Whilst there is a kernel of truth to these observations, they do not, as ever, paint the full picture.

The Fir Cruthen are an ancient people, that much is certain, at least from their own legends, their tales tell of heroes who walked the earth alongside Gods, of creatures they wrested their lands from, creatures of immeasurable power, that to this day plot their revenge, The Fir Cruthen people’s heritage is one of blood shed but it is not simply enemy blood, or the blood of "heroes".

It is often said that scratch a Celt, and the blood that wells from them is the same as that of kings, champions and rulers of other nations, whether a King, Warchief, Battlesmiter, Crofter, or Fisherman, every Fir Cruthen can take pride in what they are, and all are honoured by their people. It is notable that whilst the Fir Cruthen have a hierarchy, and what seems at first to be a feudal society, in fact it is anything but, the higher in rank one is, the more responsibilities one has to ones people. The Fir Cruthen have no ‘peasants’, no ‘serfs’ and no ‘slaves’.
The closest they have is the folk, and that is a catch all word to mean all those whom they have obligation to, and in the Fir Cruthen, that obligation always runs downhill, a member of the folk will show loyalty to their Chief, but that Chief must ensure the prosperity of the folk under their care, their safety, and their trust.
